Update Deploy export/import from v7 (and release notes for 10.4.0-rc1, 12.2.0-rc1 and 13.1.0-rc1) (#5900)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 13/umbraco-deploy/deployment-workflow/import-export.md

Similar to when exporting, you can choose to import everything from the archive file, or only content, schema or files.

{% hint style="info" %}

> Deploy does not touch the default maximum upload size, but can you configure this yourself by following the CMS documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy does not touch the default maximum upload size, but can you [configure this yourself by following the CMS documentation](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/maximumuploadsizesettings).
```

> Deploy does not touch the default maximum upload size, but can you [configure this yourself by following the CMS documentation](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/maximumuploadsizesettings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy does not touch the default maximum upload size, but you can [configure this yourself by following the CMS documentation](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/maximumuploadsizesettings).
```

We've also made available base implementations that you can use to build your own migrations. You may have a need to handle transfer of information between other obsolete and replacement property editors that you have in your Umbraco application.

- `ArtifactMigratorBase<TArtifact>` - migrates the artifact of the specified type

> - `DataTypeArtifactMigratorBase` - migrates data type artifacts

Author: ```suggestion
- `DataTypeArtifactMigratorBase` - migrates Data Type artifacts
```

> - `ReplaceDataTypeArtifactMigratorBase` - migrates a data type from one property editor to another

Author: ```suggestion
- `ReplaceDataTypeArtifactMigratorBase` - migrates a Data Type from one property editor to another
```

First we have the artifact migrator that handles the conversion of the configuration stored with a datatype:

<details>

> <summary>`ReplaceNestedContentDataTypeArtifactMigrator.cs` (migrate Nested Content data type to Block List)</summary>

Author: ```suggestion
<summary>`ReplaceNestedContentDataTypeArtifactMigrator.cs` (migrate Nested Content Data Type to Block List)</summary>
```

    }
}
```
</details>

Moving forward, other migrators may be built by HQ or the community for property editors found in community packages. We'll make them available for [use](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib) and [review](https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib) via the `Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` package.

### Migrating from Umbraco 7

The import and export feature is available from Deploy 4.9 (which supports Umbraco 8), 10.3, 12.1 and 13.0. It's not been ported back to Umbraco 7, hence you can't trigger an export from there in the same way.

> We are still able to use this feature though to help the migration from Umbraco 7 to a more recent major version using additional logic added to the Deploy Contrib project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use this feature to help migrate from Umbraco 7 to a supported major version using additional logic added to the Deploy Contrib project.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature can still be used to help the migration from Umbraco 7 to a more recent major version using additional logic added to the Deploy Contrib project.
```

#### Exporting Umbraco 7 content and schema

> We can generate an export archive in the same format as used by the content import/export feature by adding the [`Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib.Export` assembly](https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib/releases/tag/release-2.0.0-export) to your Umbraco 7 project. This archive can then be imported into a newer Umbraco version by configuring the legacy import migrators. You can also apply additional migrators to update obsolete data types and property data into newer equivalents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can generate an export archive in the same format as used by the import/export feature by adding the [`Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib.Export` assembly](https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib/releases/tag/release-2.0.0-export) to your Umbraco 7 project. This archive can then be imported into a newer Umbraco version by configuring the legacy import migrators. You can also apply additional migrators to update obsolete data types and property data into newer equivalents.
```

            Constants.UdiEntityType.MediaTypeContainer,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MemberType,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MemberGroup,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Macro,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.DictionaryItem,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Template,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Language,
            // Include all related files
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MediaFile,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MacroScript,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.PartialView,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.PartialViewMacro,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Script,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Stylesheet,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.UserControl,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.TemplateFile,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Xslt
        };

        // Create export
        var zipArchiveFilePath = HostingEnvironment.MapPath("~/data/" + "export-" + Guid.NewGuid() + ".zip");
        ArtifactExportService.ExportArtifacts(udis, Constants.DeploySelector.ThisAndDescendants, zipArchiveFilePath, dependencyEntityTypes);
    }
}
```
</details>

#### Importing Umbraco 7 content and schema

> To import this archive into a newer Umbraco project, you need to install `UmbracoDeploy.Contrib` 4.3 (for Umbraco 8) or `Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` 10.2, 12.1 or 13.1 (or later) and configure the legacy artifact type resolver and migrators. Artifact type resolvers allow resolving changes in the type that's stored in the `__type` JSON property of the artifact, in case it moved to a different assembly or namespace (or got renamed) in a newer version. The legacy migrators handle the following changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To import this archive into a newer Umbraco project, you need to either install:
* `UmbracoDeploy.Contrib` 4.3 for Umbraco 8
*`Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` for Umbraco 10.2, 12.1, 13.1 or later 
You then need to configure the legacy artifact type resolver and migratory. 

Artifact type resolvers allow resolving changes in the type that's stored in the `__type` JSON property of the artifact, in case it moved to a different assembly or namespace (or got renamed) in a newer version. The legacy migrators handle the following changes:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To import this archive into a newer Umbraco project, you need to install either of these packages:
* `UmbracoDeploy.Contrib` 4.3 for Umbraco 8
* `Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` for Umbraco 10.2, 12.1, 13.1 or later 
Then you need to configure the legacy artifact type resolver and migratory.
```

- Moving the pre-values of data types to the configuration property;
- Moving the invariant release and expire dates of content to the (culture variant) schedule property;
- Moving the 'allowed at root' and 'allowed child content types' of content/media/member types to the permissions property;

> - Migrating the data type configuration from pre-values to the correct configuration objects and new editor aliases for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Migrating the Data Type configuration from pre-values to the correct configuration objects and new editor aliases for:
```

  - `Umbraco.DropDownMultiple` to `Umbraco.DropDownListFlexible` (pre-values to value list, defaults to multiple item select)
  - `Umbraco.MediaPicker2` to `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID, defaults to single item select)
  - `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MemberPicker2` to `Umbraco.MemberPicker`
  - `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker2` to `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MultipleMediaPicker` to `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID, defaults to multiple item select)
    - `Umbraco.NoEdit` to `Umbraco.Label`
  - `Umbraco.RadioButtonList` (pre-values to value list, change database type from integer to nvarchar)
  - `Umbraco.RelatedLinks2` to `Umbraco.MultiUrlPicker`
  - `Umbraco.RelatedLinks` to `Umbraco.MultiUrlPicker`
  - `Umbraco.Textbox` to `Umbraco.TextBox`
  - `Umbraco.TextboxMultiple` to `Umbraco.TextArea`
  - `Umbraco.TinyMCEv3` to `Umbraco.TinyMCE`
- Migrating pre-value property values for:
  - `Umbraco.CheckBoxList`
  - `Umbraco.DropDown.Flexible`
  - `Umbraco.RadioButtonList` 

> The following composer adds the required legacy artifact type resolver and migrators, plus a custom resolver that marks the specified document type alias `testElement` as element type. Element types are a concept added in Umbraco 8 and is required for document types that are used in Nested Content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following composer adds the required legacy artifact type resolver and migratory. It also adds a custom resolver that marks the specified document type alias `testElement` as element type. Element types are a concept added in Umbraco 8 and are required for document types that are used in Nested Content.
```
